put the thing on anyway.
We talked about Vietnam, but it's important.
Tell me about winning the National Book Award.
Oh, it's nothing.
It helps in terms of luck.
Who reads it, who the judges are, whether they happen to read your book or not, whether they're in a good mood that day.
In my case, Wallace Stegner's wife, as I was told, read the book.
and said, I like this book, you should read it.
She hasn't read it.
Maybe he wouldn't have.
And, you know, I mean, it's just a lot.
Well, I made a point of him.
He's a friend of mine.
Parts of Garf are unbelievably beautiful.
It's weird what happened to John.
He was known as a literary writer, Garfield, and suddenly he's a commercial writer.
I'm interviewing him in New York.
Tell him hi, number one.
But I made a point in my speech.
I asked a question to Carnegie Hall.
I said, on the strength of your speech, it sounds like you felt the wrong person you want.
I remember the question.
I remember you.
I don't feel that.
I feel I deserve to win, but I feel he deserved to win.
We both deserve to win.
But I felt, I mean, my response was on it.
Yeah.
And I do.
I mean, I love that book.
The Ponfion grill parts are sections of that book.
They're so magical and beautiful.
There's a magic in the book that's overlooked now because it was a bestseller.
It's weird.
The women's movement was very aggressive then.
They didn't like the Ellen Jamesians.
Yeah, the Ellen Jamesian thing, yeah.
Cutting out the tons, very resettles on their board.
And I think there was no way.
There were two women on their board.
I thought Cheever was actually going to win that.
Yeah, but that was also the material that was published.
I mean, there were a lot of us who knew it.
Yeah.
I wouldn't have felt bad, though.
I mean, what you feel is luck.
I mean, I felt blessed and fortunate and always will.
But at the same time, I also know that The Things They Carried was a better book.
And it was a finalist for everything.
But I also knew that Rabbit at Rest was a great book, and I didn't feel any—I felt proud that Uptight won.
I was disappointed in a way, but I also knew that a good book would want, a bad book would want, I'd have been pissed.
Did you read that Paco story?
Yeah.
What did you think of that?
So-so.
I mean, I didn't hate it.
I liked his first book a lot better called Close Quarters, which is, that's a hell of a book.
I mean, that's the one that caused a big controversy.
Yeah.
It's all luck.
People don't realize that.
When you think about it, what if William Gass had been a judge?
His work and my work, there's no way he's going to like my work.
There's no way I'm going to admire his work, but I can't fall in love with it.
That fiction is touching and squeezing the human heart.
And he doesn't care much about squeezing the heart.
He cares that his concerns are intellectual and a minor, too, in part.
But for me, if a book doesn't somehow grab your heart and scare you a little bit or give you the chills or make you a little sad or make you want to wake up in the night and say, my God, I don't know.
That's what Billy Budd does for me.
And that's what art does.